What I don’t want to do is bore you with endless details. My goal is to give you just enough information so you understand the What and Why behind each strategy so you can start using them to change your life for the better. Each of the strategies I will outline has scientific backing. I’ve also used them in my own life. You see, I know how powerful scientific research is, and I use this as my starting point. 



《LEAN IN - A Guide To Living Well - Stephen Reed》 

If you are not convinced about the validity of creating a dream board, take a leap of faith and give it a try. Worst case scenario, you waste 30 minutes of your life. More probable outcome, you enjoy it, get inspired, and spend longer than 30 minutes on it. Keep it simple to start, you can always change some of the images as time goes by, as your goals are met, change, or you see something more appropriate. This is just a start. But take it seriously, don’t just grab the first picture you see and say, “that’ll do”. We are planning for our future success, being lazy would be a terrible waste. This dream board is going to have a number of pictures that you feel exemplify the life you would like to lead. They are symbolic. This board is going to be placed somewhere prominent where you cannot fail to see it multiple times a day. On the refrigerator, above the bathroom mirror, at your desk, above the computer screen. It needs to be one of the first things you see in the morning, and one of the last you see before bed. One cool thing that I do is take a photo of my board on my phone, so I can have it with me all the time. You could even use it as the wallpaper on your phone or computer. An inspirational quote, or even a word, can make a good central focus for your dream board. It’s not essential; it is your board after all. So, without any more stalling, get your printer fired up, or those scissors primed for action, and go mad. Get more pictures than you need, then whittle them down to 8-10 that you absolutely love. Here is an example of the types of words I type into Google Images when creating my own dream board. 


Contemporary Homes 
Beach-side Apartments 
Minimalist Rooms 
Yacht Holidays 
Tropical Paradise 
Harley Davidson Motorcycles 
Sports Cars 
Wealthy Lifestyle 


You get the idea? 

If you enjoy the idea of writing lists, then sure, go for it. Use some time to write a few key points down on what your ideal lifestyle might look like. Some people find the actual process of putting pen to paper very powerful. For myself, having some form of visual representation of what my ‘ideal’ life might look like is far more powerful. Words tend to get stuck in a pile of paperwork; images on a dream board can be seen every day. You still have to put it up somewhere though :-) If you like to write, do it, but make it a pre-planning strategy before you build your dream board, not as a replacement. Come back when you have got that board together. If you would like to, I’d love to put some images of your dream boards up on my website at http://www.realwealthproject.com. You can visit the contact page and drop me an email. Be awesome to see what you have created. Cool, you’re done? You have found an incredible place to stick your board, so you can see it multiple times per day? You’ve taken a picture and saved it as the wallpaper on your phone, or as a screen-saver on your computer? The more places it can be, to remind you of why and where you are going, the better. There, you have a visualisation method that will help you to reprogram your mind for a wealth and success outlook, not one of fear, negativity and failure. But it only works if you give it a chance. Nothing happens overnight. Success or failures both need time. The mind is a very powerful thing, and just because it is part of ‘you’, don’t think for a minute that it always has your best intentions at heart. Your mind will play tricks on you, deceive you, and try to maintain that safe place in which you currently reside, even if that place is making you miserable. It’s a strange thing, you would think that your mind would do everything within its power to make you happy and successful, but it doesn’t. Your current mind-set and beliefs are a product of your current thought patterns, influenced by your previous experiences, and also the evolutionary past that has programmed you for survival, not necessarily for wild success and happiness. As long as you remain alive for long enough to procreate, your body and mind are not that bothered what happens to you. Panic not, you do have the ability to reprogram yourself, we will talk about that in the upcoming section. Again, this is not going to be some mumbo-jumbo, new-age spiel about ‘think and so it will be’, as if by magic. But changing thought processes, even when they may at the start, appear to seem like you are lying to yourself, can have a profound affect on your successes, or indeed, your failures. Let’s move on, and discuss how we can combine that awesome dream board with some slow, but steady systems to light you up, and get you on a path to personal happiness and success. 



------------------------------ 


The Power Of Positive Thought 


might have heard that phrase before, and dismissed it with the same scorn that you would to the think and grow rich idea. And to some extent, I wouldn’t blame you. I’ve spent most of my life as a sceptic and cynic. And where did it get me. A life punctuated with success and great happiness, with the rest of it being a low level, quiet malaise, I guess you’d call it a chronic feeling of apathy. I often thought ‘is this it, is this my life?’ Never massively depressed, but rarely ecstatic either. Perhaps you feel the same, wondering if fulfilment and a total love for life is something that you are ever destined to experience. It always seems to be other people who live those types of lives, lives of wonder, success, financial independence and freedom. Well, if them, why not you? Come on, answer me that one. What makes you so lacking in personality, ability, skills and value that you couldn’t offer something incredible to the world, and make your impact, leave your legacy? We’ll talk more about value in a later section, it’s really the most important part of the wealth equation, after coming to terms with yourself and your aspirations. Thinking positively seems so darned obvious, that we often dismiss it. All the top motivation, entrepreneurial authors and speakers, those who are experts in wealth creation, athletic coaches, pretty much anyone who has been successful in life, holds positive thinking and an optimistic nature as the most important attribute that one needs to succeed. I know that I have struggled with keeping positive many times through my life. Times of huge optimism, almost a giddy feeling that I’m ‘on fire’ and nothing can knock me down. It’s one hell of a feeling, the knowing that things are going to work out, and you are going to succeed. Amazing! Problem is, this optimism is often short lived, I know it has been for me in the past, and will be in the future, to some extent or another. It would be foolish to suggest that to succeed, you have to be an eternal optimist, sustaining those feelings every minute of every day, for a lifetime would be impossible. Perhaps I’ve got a low level bi-polar thing going on, or maybe it is just a feature of the human condition, unless we take action to change things. To succeed, one does need to be optimistic at least some of the time, probably a lot of the time, and to be able to pick yourself up and carry on when everything seems to be aligning against you. There are ways to improve your performance in this department, and I’m going to give you a couple of strategies that I tend to use on a daily basis. They really work for me. 

1. Listen To Educational & Motivational Podcasts 

In Your Area Of Interest Time seems short for pretty much everyone these days. Long hours at work, long commutes, household chores to do, kids to take to school, the list goes on. Finding time to do anything for yourself may appear hard, but as long as you have a smart phone or a tablet of some type, or even a home computer, listening to podcasts is an incredibly time efficient way to get yourself inspired, and to learn a massive amount along the way. It’s predicted that within the next 2 years ALL new cars with have a podcast functionality built into their entertainment system. Podcasts are like online radio shows, with tens of thousands of podcasters around the world recording weekly, or even daily shows, generally in the 30 minutes to one hour time range. There are podcasts on health, fitness, investing, writing, gardening, cooking, lifestyle. Pretty much any topic you can imagine, and probably some you wouldn’t 
want to (I even saw a podcast for swingers, not sure how that one popped up?) I listen to podcasts when I get up in the morning, when I’m driving in the car, before bed. I particularly like the morning and bedtime ones, I consider them a really good way of setting up a positive mind-set to start my day, and to go off to sleep with positivism flowing around in my brain. My area of interest is lifestyle freedom, financial independence and freedom business building, as well as writing. I listen to some of the most successful people on the planet telling how they achieved the success that I yearn, and also recalling all the failures during their journey, and how they overcame those problems. They certainly get me fired up. The next strategy to improve your mind-set is related to the people you surround yourself with. More on that in a moment, because I do feel it also overlaps a little with this podcast section. Even if you are unable to directly connect with successful people in your everyday life, listening to them on a regular basis certainly provides some of the same effects. 

2. Surrounding Yourself With Successful People It’s often said that we are the sum product of the 5 people we spend the most time with. Spend all your time with boring, negative people with no hunger for success in life, how on earth do you expect to be any different? I know that, on a personal level, I have a very supportive wife, who wants me to be happy in life. She always encourages me to follow what makes me happy, and I love her for that. At that supportive level, she is awesome. However, she is not really that interested in what I do specifically. She tends to be a person who likes to play everything safe and not take ‘chances’ in life. She would prefer a steady, but non-spectacular income, than to take any chances. When I talk about projects I am interested in, her first response is usually, “will it make money?” For me personally, although she loves and supports me, she is not the ideal person to talk to about my dreams for success and a life of incredible experiences. Sure, when I get there, she’ll definitely want to be along for the ride, but she’s not a great motivator for me at the tactical level. Finding a way, any way (within the boundaries of the law and human decency of course) to meet, mix with, connect, and communicate with people on a similar journey to your own is vitally important to making it. Without this support mechanism, when things seem to not be working, when progress is slow, when obstacles appear around every turn, it is just too easy to give up. Once you have seen some success, and know what creates success, then it is easier to see the wood for the trees, but at the start, some form of mastermind group or mentorship is extremely helpful. Many of the world’s most successful people still use mentors, even if they are operating at the highest level in their business. I was listening to a podcast on The James Altucher Show (check it out) just a couple of days ago, where he chatted to Tony Robbins, probably the most successful motivational coach on the planet. Robbins recounted receiving a phone call from the then President Bill Clinton, on the day before his impeachment. The most powerful man on the planet, asking for mentorship from one of the world’s best mentors. Robbins has mentored and coached many of the greatest people in the world. They recognise that ‘no man is an island’, and that we all need help and inspiration from time to time. My advice would be, and it is advice that I continuously act on myself, is to start in your journey towards a more successful life, by hanging out in places that successful people hang out. 

Probably not your local Starbucks (although you never know), but there are hundreds of online forums and Facebook groups with people doing just the sorts of things you want to do with your life. They are, on the whole, friendly places, with people more than willing to help out. How about starting your own small, private Facebook group, setting up a Google Hangout? You probably know a stack of people who would like to do something similar to you. Even if none of you are experts, and you just support each other, it will definitely help to keep you motivated. I had quite a successful online presence a few years back, building websites and monetising them in a number of ways. Things were slow at the start, and without the support of some excellent people on a small forum, I would likely have given up. But by sharing our experiences, tips, time-saving strategies, I was able to push through and see some success. 

3. Read More Books Since getting a Kindle Fire, my reading volume has gone through the roof. I used to enjoy books in paperback form anyway, and have bought plenty of them, I always loved the idea of books in a physical form, some people always will. But since getting the Kindle, my reading, my absorption of information, my yearning for new and useful knowledge from incredibly motivating people has exploded. And since Kindle Unlimited came on the scene, with unlimited kindle books for a monthly fee, things have got even better. I now digest 3-4 books a week, every week, sometimes more. My desire for knowledge is insatiable. I learned everything I needed about publishing my own books, just like this one, from books I read on my Kindle. I read the books, learned that some of the authors also podcasted, listened to those, and the result is that I now sit in cafes for 2 hours a day writing my own books, and publishing them on the largest book search engine in the world, Amazon. I’ve had two bestsellers; hopefully this book will be a third. If you only spent 15 minutes a day reading 10 pages of an educational, non-fiction book, in a year you’d have read 3650 pages, or perhaps 10-15 entire books. How much could that teach you? How could that change your life? A LOT I think. 


4 Daily Mantras….Really? “Whoa there Steve, now you are going to far. There is no way in hell that I’m going to start chanting some positive thinking mantra, what a load of BS!” Sorry you feel that way :-) And yes, I’ve been a super high level cynic about the power of vocalising a phrase or mantra that I really didn’t believe. It seems like you’re just lying to yourself. Imagine it. You feel like the biggest loser in the world, and them someone tells you to proclaim, multiple times a day that you are wealthy, successful, and a total winner in everything you do. What could be funnier? Yeah, it does seem kind of comical, and a total waste of time, but I really do think there is something to it. Let me explain why… No-one would dispute that if, throughout your entire childhood, your parents had told you that you were useless or a waste of space, that those words, repeated day after day, week after week, year after year, might just have a negative impact on your self esteem. Who would dispute, that if you were constantly subjected to violence in the home, or in your neighbourhood as you grow up, that you might develop some sort of violent, or otherwise anti-social tendencies. Would you agree with me? Do you think that children who have loving, supportive parents, who never put them down or are unfairly critical, have a better chance of entering adulthood with positive self esteem and confidence, than the child who is belittled and ridiculed? The above examples are never really subject to argument; it’s almost like common knowledge. Of course, there is a way for the badly treated to overcome and push through those experiences. Anyone can succeed; it just takes a change in mind-set, which can be improved by implementing all the other strategies I have listed above. It’s not easy, and many people with really bad life experiences will need some form of support and counselling to overcome their anxieties, but no-one is lost forever, unless they choose to be. If you agree with me up to now, then you will probably agree that self esteem that can be broken down by relentless negativity, can be rebuilt, or expanded by relentless positivity? Why wouldn’t that be the case? All the above strategies will help with this, but it is obviously impossible to spend your every moment listening to podcasts and mixing with the rich and successful. If you can, good for you, email me your secret. By creating a short phrase that you can keep close at hand, learn and recite to yourself on a regular basis, is one way to start reprogramming your mind to develop a more positive attitude. The brain is a muscle; it can be trained for good or for bad. Constant abuse trains you to not value yourself, consistent praise and recognition of good work builds self esteem and positivity. You can shortcut the process by using a positive phrase, each and every day, to train yourself. Just relying on others to massage your ego is not taking control of your own life. Compliments and praise are awesome, we all like them, but when we get to the point that we need them to function, things are definitely on a slippery slope. Which is why taking your own actions is far more logical. At first, it will seem like a lie, you’ll be telling yourself things that you just don’t believe. Don’t worry about it. The more you say it, and see the phrase written down, there will come a time that your brain will believe it, it will become your reality. You could call it ‘positive brainwashing’. The term brainwashing always stirs up negative connotations, but it is no more than a systematic training and conditioning of the mind. If it works in a negative respect, then it sure as hell can work in the opposite way. Here is an example daily mantra that you could use, but you can make up your own. Just make sure that it is powerful. Saying it out loud will have the best effect, but if you are anything like me, you’re not going to want to be shouting it out at the deli counter in your local supermarket. In those places, reciting it in your head is probably the best way to avoid a trip to the local police station. Here is the daily ritual, one that I personally use every day, on waking, throughout the day, and before I go to sleep. I also have it written down in visible places. ‘Everything I need is with me NOW. My life is awesome. I am successful in everything I do. I am so grateful for the people in my life, and the opportunity to achieve everything I could wish for’ You need to find something that YOU can work with. Ideally, it should be your creation. It will take time, it’s not an overnight thing, but the time required to do this is so small, it would be crazy not to give it a shot? These are just a few tried and tested strategies that make sense to me, and I hope will resonate with you too? Even if they seem like total BS right now, what have you got to lose? If things are not working now for you, the worst that could happen is that nothing changes. With a little diligence, you CAN improve your mind-set. Mindset is THE hallmark of successful people; you owe it to yourself to be one. The take away from this section is that to be successful, one has to be around success, to eat, sleep and drink success, to find any way possible to create a success mentality. It’s a learned skill, but by working on building some ‘success equity’ a little at a time, the results will stun you. Many seemingly small, incremental steps, can build up into something wonderful. I want this for you, as much as I want it for myself. The idea that my words could help you change your life means a lot to me, sharing is caring after all :-) The little daily mantra I showed you has the word ‘grateful’ in it. And with good reason. Gratitude is something that the most successful people in the world continuously cite as a critical part of their mental attitude. I’ve struggled with this concept in the past myself, but with hindsight, and by including ‘gratitude’ in my daily rituals, I have found it to be a very powerful tool. Let’s take a look at what it means to be grateful, and how this can help you in your success and happiness journey. 

